Speaker 1  00:07
Let me hit you with another one. You know, one of the things a lot of us keep doing here is, as we're sailing our boats, we're constantly checking and rechecking the tune, right? And I've noticed you don't do that as much as other people do. And I was wondering what your thoughts are about re tuning and retuning and settings initially and changes during the racing, etc.

Speaker 2  00:37
I mean, I'm, I'm a big believer that if your boats set up quite balanced, which is what we all strive for with any designer or any sailor strives for. When you find a nice balance, you'll find that your adjustments of your rig, or your adjustments of your sheeting, you'll you'll pretty much have a lot of those in your head and written on either a notebook or in a little Permanent marker on your deck or somewhere where they're convenient to you, but you I don't like to get stuck or have a boat that I feel I need to keep making a lot of changes daily, because the reality is, I think, with the boats that we sail, because we've got to stand somewhere near our boats, the breeze invariably in well, in most venues, can always be quite puffy or gusty from different directions. And if you've got a boat that hasn't well that, or a setup that doesn't handle wind pressure variations very well, and you feel like you've got to constantly keep adjusting it every time you bring it back to the shore, it's just a bit of a battle. And the reality is that you've kind of got to get that out of your head and get a little bit of an easier setting and concentrate more on how you sail the boat when it's on the water, and whether you're easing or cheating your sails in good coordination to your hand movements on your rudder. And I kind of think it's more important to race the course. Well, then look for the final millimeter in your rigging all the time. You can just get it in your head, and it plays on you the whole time. You keep asking yourself the question is that right doesn't feel right? Doesn't feel right, doesn't feel right. You've got to get your boat to a base setting where you can kind of just say, You know what it is, what it is, and I'm going to race the backside out of whatever I've just put on the water, and you'll find that you'll you'll do better that way than looking.
