Speaker 1  00:07
When you come to a regatta for the first time, what is it that you look at, at the course and at your boat to decide how you're going to handle the upcoming event?

Speaker 2  00:18
Firstly, you try and arrive the night before, and you want to source out the best beer. In all seriousness, we turn up at an event on on the morning of the first day, and just have a little bit of a little bit of a look at the course area. And maybe you'd want to have a little bit of a look at what kind of weather is expected for the day, and then just start speaking. Speak to the locals. If you haven't been to that venue before, have a chat with the local. See if you can get a bit of an ear on anything that might be going on, or anything that's particular to that course area. There can always be little certain pointers on things you might like to avoid, or things you can take advantage of. I like to always have a look, and it's something that I don't think happens enough with a lot of skippers and a new venue, especially if maybe you do a lot of your sailing, as you guys do and some others do in landlocked areas or in ponds, and then you might be going and sailing on the open sea somewhere on Yeah, open area, which, more often than not, can be quite Tidal. And a lot of people make the mistake of not getting a little bit of a read on the tide or flow in the water, which can be very important, especially up on Start lines and picking lay lines into marks upwind. So that's something I try to look at, maybe do a little bit of timing, of timing of runs, walking into a into a start line, and just just get a handle on how long it might take if from from 10 feet out from the start line, if it if you from sheeting on position. You might count that it takes you 15 seconds in light wind if you're beating into a tide. So just little variations like that. I like to look for. I'll usually try and put my boat in the water and have a practice for maybe 10 or 15 minutes to get a little bit of a feel of the course before racing gets going. I like to try and have an idea on all of my settings before I go away to an event. As such, you might tailor your settings of your rigs and your sales a little bit towards a certain venue, but essentially, I'll have some base settings I don't like to kind of turn up at an event and fly blind, and then just have a little bit of a bit of a sail up and down the course area, and just try and get a bit of a read on what the wind's doing and and then take it from there. Just try and keep relaxed. Yeah.
