Unknown Speaker  00:08
We all know, I think can, being consistent is what works in this in this game, and

Speaker 1  00:15
there's dozens and dozens of skippers that can win a race, or win, you know, two or three races. But what racing against top skippers here taught me very, very quickly was that you needed to have kind of a bit of fight to when something didn't go right for you. You needed to be able to just write, okay, that didn't work. I'm instantly into a fight now for survival so I don't get demoted. And it's a mindset of, you know what? Every place I get past is a point better to me, every place I get past is a point better to me, it's kind of no point racing around through the middle of the fleet and going through the motions if you're in a bigger race, if you feel you can chip someone off. And it's not only just moving here, but just in our local club racing at Birkenhead, we race with when we're all up and about and that to go off to big races, it's, it's not uncommon to have sort of four or five guys that are podium finish, and it finishes in international events or racing together in a club race. And you can go home from a club race finishing fourth on the day, and you know you want to go home and question yourself, and then you look around and go, Well, hang on a minute. Well, he's a world champion, and he's a world champion, and he's a European Champion, and he's something else. Well, you know what? I didn't have that bad a day, really, in the scheme of things, but if you want to beat those guys, that's kind of what they do. And I guess one person that highlights it to me, and you know, I'll blow his trumpet because, you know he blows it enough for himself these days, or you used to, but I'll blow it for him, which is Martin Roberts. And I learned a lot from Martin, with the respect of just an absolute doggedness on the course that if something went wrong, never, ever, give up? You know, he is the kind of, the, the epitome of the, what is it, the frog swallowing something, and the thing's still got the hands around the frog saying, I will never give up, you know, while he's being eaten, kind of thing. So that's Martin. That's kind of the way Martin operates. And it's, it's always done in very, very well over the years, and it's just a good way to be. And that doesn't just extend to a mindset of how you might be getting on in a certain race or anything else. It extends to a mindset of, you know, what I've turned up at this pond today, and whether I've got the best boat here or I haven't got the best boat here today. That doesn't really matter. I'm going to absolutely sail the backside off what I have in my hands, and I'm not going to take an excuse for it and and I'll see where I end up at the end. So it's, it was kind of a bit of a mindset where, I guess, when I came over from Australia, there's, it's just, you could, I would always get myself a bit too caught up in that, you know, is my trim, did my trim right? Have I got this right? Isn't my boat right? Or there's something wrong with my boat today. This isn't right. That isn't right. And you you've got to work yourself out of that a little bit and turn it into a mindset of, you know, that's what I've just put in on in the water, the tapes on, get on and race. And you didn't get a good start, right? Okay, put your head down and catch the next person. Put your head down, catch the next person. You can give up once you've gone through the finish line, and pull it back in and have a think about it then. But there's no reason not to keep pushing you.
