Speaker 1  00:00
Are amazing how a few little creases play more mind games with your head than what, than what they will with your performance on the water. Now, in saying that there's you can get some creases, which really might hurt performance, if your sail won't drop through and set in light winds on the opposite tack or from tack to tack. But there's I'm yet to see, really, unless it goes through a seam, and it's a real savage kind of crease that the majority of creases can be worked out of your sales. I mean, they won't be perfect. They won't, they won't look showroom anymore, but they also won't. They won't affect you anywhere near as much. And basically what I do is, if you've got, like a plastic cutting mat, a green cutting mat, or that, you'll use your exacto blades on, I would just lay the sail carefully on that, and on the top side of a crease, use the edge of like a plastic squeegee card, a bank card kind of thing on the rounded corner, and just very carefully on the top of that crease, and just try and soothe it out on the wrong side, on the opposite side, and you'll find just some real careful treatment of it, even you may while, while the sail set on the boat, you can hold the back edge, hold the leech or the back edge of the sail, and very carefully, just rub that card through just in a very light pressure. And just try a little bit more pressure, and you will gently, kind of caress out the worst part of any creases, enough to keep you going in the very lightest of breezes. If your sail didn't set through on the opposite side, you might notice some some problems with that. But outside of that, if you've got a powered up breeze and the sails still going through, if it's got a couple of tiny little humps and bumps, you know your boat will still be better than where you put it. And that's that, not just in this instance, but in so many instances, is that the reality is, we sail our boats around, not always perfect, but we need to be more mindful of, you know, we make more of a difference than than a slight, slight bit of trim or a little crease in the jib, or anything else, does you putting it in the right spot and easing your sales at the right time and tacking at the right time will make far more of a difference than a few little creases in yourself? Yeah.
