Speaker 1  00:10
The starting signal is time from the start of the beat, not the end of the beat. So that's another one where people say, Oh, you're over the start line. The starting signal is time from the start of the bait. All right, so we're now getting out there, so we call boats on the water. All right. Now just call them on the water. The Start bait will be going on in one minute, two minute, whatever it is. After you've done that, the first time you just call them under the water, individual recalls there is no restriction on the number of boats that can be recalled, if you can identify more. All right, I even had one Ro And I don't advise you to do this, but he said, All boats except one, five and four, four recall. All right? And that's a fair enough call. If they were all over and they were all identified, that's fair enough. You could have two boats if you can't identify one of them and you can't identify them in a reasonable time, which is approximately five seconds, you call it general recall, but we go along and the boats are over. It's just simply recall, 2615, recall 2615, you can't have boats halfway up the course. And then call it if you can't do it immediately, buddy, general recall. Now you'll notice here that we got recall five, six and nine, nine repeat as appropriate. Under the old rules, it used to be you had to call everything twice. The new rules is that you call it once and repeat as appropriate. Now to me, that's made the situation more confusing, what is appropriate, all right? What they what part of that is for, is if they call, do a call, and that goes to observers and all the rest of it, and the skipper immediately says, Yep, my blue I'll do that. It's pointless calling it again. But if no one says anything, and it's called in a way that is reasonably expected, that the skippers can hear it, all right, two calls, and that's it. If the RO is unable to identify all the boats that were on the course side. So that's that's the difference. If you can identify a dozen boats, you can recall individual recall. You can have two or three boats over and you can't see the boat number, all right, then you have to have a general recall, because it's not fair to recall two of them, and then wait till the other boat's halfway up the bloody halfway up the course, and say, yeah, oh, you were over too. Now you notice we got the thing there. Recall. Now I've heard people say you're over and all the rest of the stuff, you've got to go back so and so. All Out, the rules are quite clear to recall an individual recall. It says recall on the boat number All right, the idea of that, if you say, Oh, you're over, so and so, what's he going to say, No, I'm not. All right, if you say you've got to go back, so why? All right, just recall so and so, if they asking questions stuff, just repeat the call. General recalls his whistles. But there's no no verbal for individual recall, no verbal stipulate. There's nothing to stop you doing it, but there's nothing stipulated for him. If the RO is able to identify all the boats over, he does two whistle sounds and call general recall. Now there's two things you've got to keep in mind here, on a normal recall, boats recalled can dip the line all right, as long as they do not interfere with one of the other boat, and as long as their boat goes completely to the core side of the line. It's not just the bow. Their boat's got to go completely to the core side of the line. What is advantageous if it's a clear start, say that words to that effect, clear start, after a normal recall, they can dip the line in a normal, normal start of a race. If a boat is over, he can return to the course signal line, as long as he doesn't interfere with the boats that are there. All right, after a general recall flag India, which is around the end, rule comes into force. This requires a boat that is over the start line, one essentially in the last minute before the starting signal. To return to the pre course side of the by crossing the extensions aligned. So you've got to go around the boys. All right, that's on a general recall. That's after a general recall. The start after a general recall. So what I normally say, general recall, general recall, general recall, general recall round the end. Rule is now in force. Tape is going on. People will be sailing up the course and say, no, no, no, it's not general. That was fine. Put the tape on. It's a problem to get back, all right. And when they come back, they've got to go around the end of the buoys. When you've called a general recall, and everyone comes back around the end, will supply and we line up then for the next start again. If a boat goes over the line, by going over and then tries to maybe dip back down, do they have to go back around the horn? It's my question. After the preparatory signal, after the preparatory signal, if it's before the preparatory signal, no. After the preparatory signal, if they're over, even if they're a bow bumper over, they've got to go around the end of the buoys. Now the sailing instruction is very clear. The first first start is always a general start. All right, so what we call a general start, if there is a general recall, the next start is always an India around the end rule. All right, it then says that following general recalls. It can either be a flag India, a u flag or a black flag. Start. A lot of people get confused, and they say, Oh, we've had two general recalls. We've got to have a black flag or a u flag. That's not that's up to the RO to decide. All right, there could be reasons. It could be that the course was slightly out, and that's why the start line was slightly out. There could be now, outside of thing, it's up to the RO two side, because it says they may. And everything you read in this thing, if it's May, it's optional. If it's shall, it's got to be done, all right. So they say it may, any, any of the following starts may be a flag India, a u flag or a black flag. Now I have never called a black flag, and I hope I never have to call a black flag. I'll always call a uniform flag before I call a black flag, anyone told me why? What it is is, if it's a black flag, you can't start, even if they abandon the race after the start, right? It's so used, they restart the race again. You can't sail in it because you've been black flagged, all right? I believe that's unfair. They've picked you for being over and then they've abandoned the bloody race. How's that fair to the boats. Difference between the black flag and the u flag is, yes, you're disqualified, but if it's been or postponed after the start, you're only at the start. The responsibility calling general recalls is out of the RO or is the authorized representative. That's the starter. If you've got one, there is no provision in the rules, and this will happen all the time. There's no provision in the rules for a competitor to call or try and override an ROS call for an individual or general recall. But they'll do that all the time. They'll get a good start. Half the fleet will be over, and they'll want to keep going. It's up to the RO to decide if it's a general recall, two whistle blasts. And the idea of the two whistle blasts and this individual recall, or general recall, is that it's not a question, it's not inviting conversation back. It's a direction. It's a general recall. General recall round the end rules in force. Tape is going on, all right. So if we're going to call a u flag or a black flag, we just two sound signals. U flag is now in force. Now you shouldn't have to explain what that is. What is a u flag? If any boat, part of a boat is in a triangle between the ends of the start line and the top mark in the minute, starting from minute before is over, he is automatically disqualified. All right? He's called out. He's disqualified. He got to take his boat out of the area. Doesn't need the protest hearing. That's one of the things that keeps coming in through the rules. They'll say, you know, protest hearing. You don't need it for a u flag or a black flag. Arrow's decision straight away, you don't have to call this number out. He's got to be identified. He's got to be identified. Point. Otherwise you could say I wouldn't have so the rule actually says if a bloke, if a boat is, in other words, the effect of a boat is in that triangle and identified.

Speaker 2  10:14
So that means I'll start after a new flight, you still have to call the boats open.

Speaker 1  10:21
Well, if they're in the ship, he's in the triangle. If he's in the triangle, you can call it before the start, disqualify, get off the course. That is the score he can drop, but a black flag, if you start in the next race, your score will be one that you can't exclude. So also, with that, say it's a black flag, and that's why black flags are unfair. Get them out of your head. If you call a black flag, he's over all right. And then after the start. If it's abandoned before the start, he can sail again. But if it's abandoned after the start, he can't sail again. He can't sail in it. If you've abandoned after the start and re run it, his disqualification should be increased to A, D and E, as I said, under the new sailing instructions, they've, they've, all they've done is the old sailing instruction said that short courses can be shortened. They've dropped that out, which means you go back to the racing rules of sale in Appendix E, which says they can't be shortened. All right, so for club events or for non ranking events, I'm really in favor of shortened courses. I'd much prefer to shorten a course than to have to abandon a race because the boats can't finish. You may get the may get the idea that I'm against abandoning races, absolute last resort, opens up a barrel of worms. Always, the blokes are out the front are going to be requesting redress. They shouldn't get requests half the time they do. Why shouldn't they get redress? They shouldn't get redress because the rules on redress says that it must be an improper act of the race officer or race committee. All right, the case books has defined an improper act as one that is not permitted by the rules. All right, abandoning a race or shortening a race is permitted by the rules. So if he abandons a race, the skippers might disagree with him, especially the top skippers who are up the front might disagree with him, but it's not an improper act. Therefore he shouldn't be entitled to redress.

Speaker 2  13:00
So there's a time frame. Bill isn't there with regards to shortening, of course, it must be done by before the

Speaker 1  13:07
first boat rounds the boy on the leg that he's going to finish, and you shouldn't, but shouldn't ever do it after the first boat is finished. The heat race should only abandon as a last resort. Reason for this may include a major wing shift on the first leg. You'll hear people tell you that the first boats laid that mark in one leg, therefore, we got to abandon the race. Do you have to abandon the race? You only abandon it if, in your opinion, someone has been severely disadvantaged through no fault of their own, so half the fleet's already out there doing nothing. This fleet went up to the board. It's a ros discretion. If you believe that a number of the fleet has been disadvantaged, the RO must not abandon a heat or race without first considering his actions may affect the majority of the fleet. When we get into redress. Redress was to make good is supposed to be, make it fair. A fairer solution in a lot of incidents is just to let the results remain as they are, the fairest thing to the majority of boat. All right. Also when you get into redress, the protest committee, if you Daniel request redress, the protest committee hears redress. They're supposed to make a fair arrangement for all the boats as they can whether they requested redress or not. The same thing there. You just do two sound signal shortened course or abandoned course. You'll hear a lot of people say, we'll score you up. We'll we'll finish you on the water. Is that a correct statement? No, no, you cannot finish a boat on the water. All right. The. If you go to the definitions, finish has a meaning the power of the boat, or front boat must cross the line in the direction from the last moment. That is finish. What you can do is you can score. You can allocate him a score on the water. All right, technical point, same, same thing. But it's technically incorrect to say you're going to say you're going to finish him on the water because he hasn't finished. You score him on the water. The finishing line, like we said, is on the course side of the line, so that's the opposite side the start line. Make a sound signal. Make a sound signal when the first boat crosses record. Have the scorers record boats each time they cross the line, if they do so more than once. You record them more than once. You don't know they could have been doing a penalty. They could have been correcting something from the from before. It's common belief that you give them the lower score that is not correct either. What you do is you determine to your best your ability, which was their correct finishing time. As RO, especially in single feet racing, I will definitely have a talk to the man and say, Don't do it again. Don't do it again, because it really stuffs up the scorers. Is there a rule somewhere? What's that crossing? Well, that's guidelines in HMS scoring. If you go to HMS scoring, they will give you the guidelines there, but it's just common practice that you score them every time. Because what if you don't score them every time? How do you know which was their right finishing place, right? And then, if you haven't scored them, and you find out that the second one was their right finishing place, how can you what position were they in? So it's just easy,

Speaker 3  16:55
though, because as you finish them, they get them further and further down the seat. So you're always gonna have to take the first one.

Speaker 1  17:01
Now why not? He could have done a penalty. He could have hit the bark. He could have done something you didn't see. It could be correcting an error. He's going he's gone around again, gone back through, then his second one or third one could be the correct finishing place. So we try to be as fair as we can. So you sit down and you try and establish which was his. It may be that you can't determine it, so you give him the second one. That could be a case. Wouldn't the person recall calling the score finishing numbers identify that boat's come across and he's finished, but, oh, he hit that boat, but he could have hit it before. Someone might have said to him, I'm protesting you. So he goes out and does a penalty and finishes again. We don't, we don't know. We don't know, so we just record him every time he crosses that way. We can work out the best of our ability what his finish position is the question, in the event that a contact was called and acknowledged just prior to finishing the boat, who has infringed the other boat and yet crossed the line been scored, the obligation on him is to return to the course side to do his penalty and finish. He can do the penalty anyway. He can do the penalty on the on the outside. He can do the penalty going around the mark, provided that he completes a penalty before he goes around the crosses the line. He can come back on the course side and complete the Cheney, but he must return fully to the course side before finishing again. But where he actually does a penalty, as long as he gets clear of the fleet and does it he's from, there is a real technical point with doing a penalty around a mark, because the penalty is to be done promptly, normally, except for a laser, which takes two and a half days To turn normally, the boats will turn around that quick that you actually pull out of doing the penalty. Go a bit further and continue the penalty. If a bloke wants to get real technical, he can take he didn't do it properly. He didn't do it in the same direction, didn't do it continuously, only done a 270 instead, he can do a lot of times. You can do a 270 all the rules. Says is one tack, one job. The doctor says one tack and one Jive in the same direction. So as long as he does one tack and one Jive in the same direction, he's through normally, that is 360s normally that. But there are cases where you might do the jibe first and the tack, and we've done money, 272, 80. That's all right, as long as he's done the tack and the jibe in the same direction, the rules say that a boat's got to get well clear of the course. Now, if a boat gets well clear of the course, and then someone comes around after. To him and goes chasing him. That's not on. What that's not on. You can't interfere with a boat if reasonably possible. You can't interfering with a boat, doing a penalty or a boat, unless you're sailing your proper course. Time Limits. All right, there are two time limits we worry about, the time limit and the timing out limit. What is a time limit sail the course and finish? All right, what is a timeout limit after the first boat finishes? All right, the time that the boats have got the to finish? All votes. All right. Now, HMS caused a bit of problem with this, because under HMS, boats are being promoted and demoted. So if you it's a real fight to try and sort out who's going to be promoted and who's if you've finished buddy 15 boats. They haven't finished them, but they've been timed out. So what under HMS and what normally does in normal racing now is, if there's four or more boats still racing, the Time Out limit is extended until there is only four boat racing. Those four boats, if they are still racing, will be scored as DNF, but they will be given a score in their finishing place. So they'll be recorded as a DNF, but they'll be given a score in their place. And what the HMS advises is That's why you can't say they finished. You say you've scored on the water. There's also one other thing with that. In HMS, there is no time limit for the first race, for the seeding race, if the boats have started, they allowed to finish two seating races on the HMS, and each of them the boats start, could be fine, and four of them might get away with it. That's why they're it's a seating race. They're trying to make it so that they split the fleet up. All right. That's all I do. Is I just called two sound signals time boat still racing will be scored on the water. Now, what HMS suggests you do in their guidelines is, if it looks like the boats are going to be timed out, you take note of their position when they go around the next mark or something, to get a relevant, relevant position where they're going to finish. Not exact science, but the best they can do. What point does the allowable time for a race? Well, if no boat finishes are in 30,

Speaker 2  22:59
at what point is the allowable time to

Speaker 1  23:09
finish. Example, if the first boat doesn't sail the course and finish in 30 minutes, it's a bend right now, if we got a long delay, whether it's for a protest hearing or something like that. If we got a long delay, the RO has got to give a sound signal and a five minute warning before the racing recommences again. So if you had a long it could be a normal ones are protest all right, when they're getting near the end of the protest, racing will recommence in five minutes. That gives people that have gone all over the place a chance to get back, and it does say approximately five minutes they can't, buddy ask for redress, because it was four and a half minutes or six and a half minutes,

Unknown Speaker  24:05
while we're talking about timing care. To also mention

Speaker 1  24:10
that second time in relation to how long people have to put in a protest, 10 minutes after the end of the race, if you go to Appendix E in time limits, it will tell you that 10 minutes after the race or after the event, after the event could be a protest hearing where they have advised you of the results and you want to reopen the want them to consider reopening it. It's 10 minutes next event. Say again the next race is done. No. The sailing instruction says 10 minutes or prior in fleet racing, prior to the preparatory signal of the next race. You never start a race until the fleet board tells you to go ahead. There's a lot of lot of arrows. We'll get the scorers to. Run up and change the first score and get the boats on the water. So you get the next boat started. They're on the water halfway up the course, and they, we've got the wrong boats. You know, there was a boat disqualified, and a boat didn't, didn't, didn't finish, and didn't tell us, or something like that. Then you, they don't advise that you have, you've been in the race, they advise that the race continues and they'd be given some other form of redress. If you've started the race with the wrong boats up on the fleet port.

Unknown Speaker  25:33
It's not protestable by

Speaker 1  25:36
you can ask for redress, but you can cannot protest. Redress is not well handled in radio control sailing, some people get the impression that if a boat contacts me, I'm entitled to redress. You know, there's only two times you can this thing, but the big killer, it's got to be through no fault of your own. And the judge's manual says, even if it's bloody 1% your fault, you're not entitled to redos. So when they go through and they say, Oh, this was an incident, however, you contributed to the cause of the incident, it's not redressable. If it's against the race committee, it must be because of an improper act or admission of the race. So you've got to make sure that it doesn't include the rules that you are allowed to do that, because then that's not an improper act the race officer will appoint, and the sailing instruction says you will appoint observers to assist in the calling of contacts in fleet racing, skippers from another fleet may be used now we have a real problem with observers. Observers are usually older blokes that didn't want to sail, and they call the first Skipper, and the first Skipper has a go at him or something, which anyone saw when I was doing it. I stress that they don't work for you. They work for me, but they have a go at them. You don't hear them about them for the rest of the day. They just sit there on that it can be members of the other fleet, and they do that in worlds and stuff like that. And they actually include in their sailing instructions, if you fail to to go there, they'll allocate a penalty scoring penalty for it when other competitors are performing the duties. They are not considered to be interested parties, all right, so you can't claim that he was an interested party, because he was an observer. The observers are to be located within the control area while performing their duties, and must not use any age such as binoculars, which would give them a visual advantage. They're supposed to be seeing things as the skippers see it. Their role is to assist the RO in calling contacts on the marks and contacts.
