Speaker 1  00:10
When we're doing the scoring, the ALI a has approved that you can use either HMS, if you're using HMS, the simplified heat system if you're using that, or the a fleet app. Now, the A fleet app, Julian will be able to tell you more about that, but the a fleet app is very, very good for single fleet racing. All right, I am old fashioned. I prefer to do it on HMS, and I'd prefer each of the fleets to do it on HMS, but my reasoning for that is so that they've got people within the club that know how to use HMS. There's no use it's all using the A fleet app. And then we go to an event and we have to use HMS. So that's anything. So just going back a bit like we said, when you're selecting the number of heats you have, you've got to have as few heats as possible, because heats take time, takes time to run. All right, what are the things that can determine how big the heats are going to be? Weather conditions, entries. Weather condition size of the size, size of the boat, size of the start line available. All right, so sometimes you have to go to an extra fleet to get the numbers down in each fleet, like if you've got 10 Raiders sailing, where they sail up in that channel, they've got a very small start line. All right, you wouldn't want more than 1210, Raiders on that start line. So you may have to extend the number of fleets. If you've got a big, long start line, you can say, Oh, well, I'll get 1820 boats on that start line. That will determine, determine that all right, but we keep the fleets as low as possible, but it is generated by the type of boat and the the venue, the venue you got just on that, say, for instance, that paradox, you're selling up canal, but the next day that the weather changes again, you've got the bigger boat here. Can you change from three to two, from no? You can go down a fleet, but you can't go up, all right, but what you can do, you can change between four and six, but make sure, before you make that decision, that the scorer knows how to change between four and six. All right, because otherwise, you're causing a lot a lot of trouble. It's not just a simple matter of, we're going to have four but you can easily go down a fleet if you get the boat numbers down, people not turning up the second day, and stuff. You can easily drop it back a fleet. The program doesn't have any problem with that. It can sometimes throw a hissy feet if you try to go the other way. Say, you know, get your act together. I'm not playing if you read the explanation, six can only be used from 24 to 484, entries. Those tables we were looking at don't deal for under 24 All right, so if you got 24 or up, 20 entries or 20 you must go four up, four down. You haven't got a choice. It sounds a bit bit silly to me. It'd be a bigger advantage if you've got the small, smaller fleets to actually use six up and six down. But the program won't accept it.

Speaker 2  03:28
What is the optimum number or maximum number of boats to constitute a one fleet Regatta?

Speaker 1  03:39
It depends on the boats, on the fleets itself, the venue, how big your start line can be. They're the major factors. If you've got a big, long start line, you can go to 2424 10 raise on a start line is a big start line, and there's big sales block out half the boats. And I prefer to have more fleets. It's easier to run more fleets once you've gone through the first couple of things. But with four fleets, what you've got a chance of doing is not getting tied up with protests. You can allocate people from the others to sort the protest out before, because if it only got two fleets, there's a good chance he's either going to be promoted or dropped. If he's disqualified, he's going to be dropped and he'll be sailing in the next race. So you can't stay sail that race until it's sorted out. You can, as I said, change between four boat promoter and six boat promotion, not a recommended. Thing. It's not just a matter of saying, I'm going to do four boats. You've got to actually tell the program that you're going to change from four to six. You use four boats, like we said, when there's less of food, when the venue is only suitable for smaller number of fleets, and to keep the sale number. Up to a minimum. What I mean by that is, if you're sailing on the borderline and you go six up, that means you're gonna have to go to another fleet. So you're better off, even though you've got large numbers, keeping four up and staying down, keeping the number of fleets down. The race consists of each of the heat. Therefore the more heat she got, the longer it takes to get a race in World Championships, and that you'll be lucky to get three or four races in a day. Breaking your ties. Everyone know how to break ties. My my thing to finishers. Don't have a tie. You make a decision. Don't have a tie with HMS. It can be a pain in the ass. It's all right at the end of the day, because it'll just go by the number of boats with the number of first, second, third places. But if it's to decide who's going to be promoted or demoted, and you've got a tie and how you're going to split that tie, you're going to go back right through the thing. Don't have a tie, righto, so with HMS, that same sort of thing, with average points when you're breaking your ties, all right? Race one results are excluded. You don't count race one results as an exception to most of the sailing instruction in race one only. There is no time out limit with HMS, all boats shall be allowed to finish provided they have started before the leading boat in the heat has finished. So if they started, they allowed to finish race one only. All right, the seating race excluded scores. Now this has virtually been passed on to all, all racing. Races are excluded after four. Races are completed, after 816, and then every eight after that, a lot of ROS will push and push, and they'll even drop down the number of laps you do to try and get another drop or not at that school. I don't care how many people will tell me, Oh, we did 26 races. You know, in a day it was well, if they done 26 races, that's because they were either small courses. You didn't give the skippers any breaks in between. To me, it's irrelevant how many races you get, as long as you get sufficient races in so as long as it's more important for the quality of the race to have a good course, and if that means you have to move the boys around, you move the boys around. That is more important than getting 26 races in, which doesn't mean because they're all bloody soldiers, courses up and down the thing and 15 meters apart. So don't get don't get flustered about the number of races, and the drops will look after themselves. If you get up to four drops, great. If you get up to three drops, great. That's whatever it is. Protests involving the place of boats that may be promoted or request of redress, which may result in a boat being promoted due to the places being agent shall be heard before they start of the next heat. That's if the bloke is going to go up, all right, because he'll be sailing in the next heat. So it's got to be heard before for the next heat. So if you've got more heat than that, protests involving boats that may be placed in a lower heat by a division can be heard as long as it's done before that boat's due to sail again. People get confused because it says that a place can only be given if the boat was on the last leg of the course. You all heard that giving a place is completely different to giving a score. You can be given a score anytime there are some restrictions in the seating race or some more restriction the senior but you can. You can be given first a score of one, but still have to drop down a fleet because you're on the last leg of the course. They can say, you come, we'll give you a score of one, but your place is where you finished. So that means you get one point on the books, but you still have to drop back a flight. A place can be only given if the boat was on the last leg of the course. And the other thing that must be run home, it must be the incident's got to be through no fault of his own. Are we still talking about now a situation that has arisen as a result of a request for redress, which is issued by a protest committee. Only approach. The RO can't give you a place. The RO can't give you a score. Only a protest committee can give you a score. There's difference between getting given a place and given a score. Now, under HMS, why? They say you can give a place on the last leg of the course, say a bloke had come around the bottom mark was going up on staff. Was clearly going to finish first. Gets taken out by a port tacker coming down. He was clearly going to finish first. He was in the right. If they give him redress and give him a score, they could give him first place, but he'd still have to drop back a fleet if he was on the last leg of the course, they can say, right here, we will give you first place, or we will give you second place. The rest of the position stay the same, but that means that you will be promoted. So there's big difference between given a place and a score and a place can only be given on the last leg of the court. Redress, as far as I'm concerned, is the most overrated things. We've got redresses to make right. Most of our incidents are sailing incidents. It's got to be through no fault of your own. No fault of your own. You 1% you tapped it and given water. But they said, you know, well, we didn't, couldn't decide whether, whether he had completed his tack or he hadn't completed his tack. Although the port tacking boat may be disqualified, your redress should be turned down because they were. They couldn't decide whether, whether he'd completed his tack, he hadn't completed his tack, etc, so you contributed to that bloody incident. There's no way in the world, you know, you can say, oh, but there was only 1% that's good enough not to get readers. When a bloke calls through water to take it, you've got to do three do three things. What do I tax straight away, sale number, room to check, room and tack. Those three words have got to be stated. They can be stated in any order. Order. Now, why you got to call your sale numbers? It's not like being on a big boat where you're next to the boat. You got to do you could be over the other side the Lachlan. You've got a lot of boats here that don't know you from a bar of salt, and you're calling out room to tack. Which boats calling room to tack? Now, once they call room to tack, they're actually declaring that they want an instruction. Now, there's rules here. When they convey, I know there's not a rules conference, but they there's rules here. They've got to be hard on the wind. They've got to have to take action to avoid the once that bloke calls room to tack, you've only got two options. Whether you believe he's got he could go further or not. Is irrelevant. Once he calls room to tack, you've got to say or that you tack Well, you've got to attack yourself right as soon as possible. Once you tack, the other boat, must tack it. Can't say, right here, he's coming in. And this happens a lot on a bank, and he suddenly gets his big lift off the bank that's taken him up. So he carries on for another 20 meters up the bank. Soon as the other bloke has tacked, he must tack also with that, any other boat that hears a call and will interfere with the boats tacking must take it as that that was a call to him too. Finally, to attack on the part of the boat who initially called room to tack is grounded for protest. Certainly it is qualified because it didn't meet the requirements of the rule. We got rules provided with three, three reasons for having rules. What are we so it's fairness, safety, yeah, all right, and it provides a means for tactics. Without out rules, you wouldn't have any tactics. All right, so it provides a room that particular rule we're talking about falls under the Safety category. Now I'm more concerned about boats not getting smashed up than they are that you think he called you to deliberately. If you think he called you deliberately, you can protest him because he hasn't met the requirements of the rule. The other big thing that will happen is you two boats will tack. There will be another boat coming, non starboard, out further. You two boats have to tack back. You can't just because you called room to tack. Soon as you tack, that rule is over. So a new situation of miles, and you got port and starboard, so you got to tack back, even if you go 10 feet. You can then call for room to come off the bank again, room to tack if you're sailing away from the instruction short No. But they do. They'll say, you know, I've called room to tack, but the room to tack only last as long once you've tacked. That's it, that rule's over. So what rules come in now? Port, starboard, windward, Lewis. We've put out a fair bit of information today. Now for a lot of people that come looking for club ROS and stuff like that, what we've actually discussed can be transport. Down to clubs, all right, it just gives you an idea of what is supposed to happen to have a good rig at it. What I'd like to finish up with is the principles of sportsmanship and fair play, the basic primary rule, principle, rule and the rule two says that you've got to perform in accordance with the principles of sportsmanship and fair play, but they don't tell you what the principles of sportsmanship and fair play. They only tell you what one of them is. What's that one? If you breach the rules, you'll immediately get clear of the fleet and do a penalty. All right, the rest of the rules, it's up to your protest committee interpretation of whether it is a breach of the principle world sailing. And the aoia have put out a list of things that can be considered a breach of rule two or rule 69 they've categorized it into four categories, respect for the rules, respect for competitors, respect for race officials and respect for property, respect for the rules, knowingly breaking a rule and not taking a penalty. Now, a lot of these sound like they're the same deliberately breaking a rule, intentionally breaking a rule to gain an unfair advantage. Now that's like I was saying this morning, with the boats coming in on port, continually coming in on port, taking boats out. That can be if they do it a few times, that can be considered a breach of rule two, if one of the skippers want to protest them under Rule two, all right, knowingly breaking a rule. The same as if you're over the start line, people will tell you I wasn't called. Don't admit that the buddy thing? Yeah, I thought I was over, but I didn't buddy. I wasn't called because the responsibility is yours. You knew you broke the rule. Get out and do the penalty. Two boats come together, port and starboard, and the bloke says, Don't worry about it. Sail on. Is that allowable? No, it's a breach of the rules. Because it may not be in Flint. He might not be concerned about it, but the boat behind him might be concerned about it, and it could be the difference between a bloke running a regatta and not running a regatta. That comes down that he knowingly broke a rule, all right, and it goes to a protest committee. They should say, you know, well, you discussed it, you knew you broke the rule. Why didn't you do a penalty? Respect for the rules? I'd hate to be on the protest committee when these come in, because they're very subjective, and usually it has to be that there is a pattern of it. But they've been doing it all the time, collision with another competitor to ignore, which may agree would disadvantage other competitors. You can't collude with another boat to benefit the other boat. Respect for other competitors. Once again, a lot of these are very hard to prove, but bullying, intimidation or harassment, verbal abuse, unless there's shouting or foul language, can also always also be considered a breach of rule. Two, as I said before, if you're protesting someone two, six, protest 1526 protest 1515 decides, no, that's rubbish. One, five, protest, 2615, protest, two, six. That should be all that's said. Control area is not a place to conduct an ad bloody protest hearing, and that really pays a lot of people off when they start yelling at each other and they're going around what you've got to be careful of ro. And I said it earlier than mine. What a lot of people have the tendency to they'll get in an argument with each other. Their whole purpose of getting in the armor with each other is that it comes too difficult. Neither of them do a penalty and sail on. In that case, the RO has the option to protest both the boats. You can't, can't say, well, Ellen was in the right, so I'll protest, Daniel. You haven't got the power to do that, but you can protest both the votes and let the committee decide. The protest committee decide it was right and wrong. So you would, if that went on and on for half a la, then you would protest both with the vote. What I would do first is, I'd say behavior penalty, 26157, 22, I hope, broad brush, we've given you some idea where the information is contained in these books. So what you do is, if a situation comes up, look up the book and do it you.
