Speaker 1  00:10
The most used system for fleet racing, all right? It's a very, very good system. The major complaint about it is with the protests. Protests, everything's got to stop, really, to hear the protests, especially if it's two heats, the more heat she got. We had one event with five heats, all the protests, but one were heard before the bloke had to buddy react. So nothing was stopped. It was conceived by Peter Stollery, who is an excellent POM Sailer. He actually won one of the world titles. And it was designed which all our systems are supposed to be. And this is a big distance between the HMS and the simplified system. It's designed to simulate fleet racing. So what it is, I've heard people say, Oh, I don't get, didn't get to sail with any of the top skippers.

Unknown Speaker  01:06
Well, a lot of the top Skipper say, Well, that's good. We didn't sail with the we didn't sail with the people are going to take us out type thing, you know.

Speaker 1  01:15
But that's simulating fleet racing the first heat, which is a seating heat. And there's only one seating heat for each each fleet consists of boat of equal ability. So you have the top boats and the bottom boats in each heat. And I'll show you how you do that in a second. All right, the races are always sailed in reverse order. So so we had five heats. We'd start off down here, here, here, here, last heat. All right, in the seating race, just because you're in B fleet or D fleet doesn't mean that you're one of the bottom skippers. All that means is it's a seating race. It's deciding who's going to go into that thing. Boats promoted. Sail in the next heap. Now we can have four or six promoted. How many boats do we have to have before we can go to 624 and the reason being that the tables don't cover anything under 24 and the advisory note says not to go unless you're under 24 and with this system, it provides every boat with a chance of winning if he's good enough to win each race. It does allow a boat to sail back through the fleet. Make sure if you're going up to run an event for somebody else, the score has actually done the ticket for you, the one meters, 10 raters, a class and marbleheads, all have rankings on the AYA website, the DFS, the DF Association has rankings for the DFS. If they're not on that ranking system, you just put them in at random at the end of it, and you can put them in by the day they registered. You can put them in by their sale number. It doesn't make any difference. If he come from overseas, it could be his known ability. Oh, geez, he's the top, top thing. It's not 100% crucial. But I have had numerous people come up and say, How come you got him ahead of me. I said because he's on the rankings. He's ahead of you, all right? So it just covers your backs, right? So you go and get the rankings, the lasers are a bit of a problem. Why the lasers a bit of a problem? They don't have rankings. So watch it. What you have to do is get people like Peter, or someone who knows the skippers, and he's just got it arbitrarily, and the skippers, you don't know, you just put them at random down the bottom. So the easiest way, then, is just to put them from top to bottom. All right, in their ranking, you go up to the board. So He's ranked number one, He's ranked number two, He's ranked number three, He's ranked number four, and

Unknown Speaker  04:02
if there's more heat, you just keep going across. He's ranked number five, six.

Unknown Speaker  04:11
So what we're doing is we're doing is we're going across so that we're winding up with

Speaker 1  04:26
fleets of equal ability. If you had five fleets, you just keep going across, back across, back across, straight forward. So we've got the seating, or, if we don't know, they just put it random at the bottom. Now one thing I must say, and it is crucial, when you

Unknown Speaker  04:49
set the board up, only the scoring team touches the board.

Speaker 1  04:55
Skippers definitely don't touch the board if you're the ro. To refrain from going up and moving around on the board. All right. If you've got a problem with the board, see the scorer. They will change the board for you. Big problem, if multiple people change the board, all right, only the scorer can change the board, right? Yeah. So we've now conducted the B fleet race, all right. And we conducted the a fleet race. What you can do, and what I highly recommend you do, or the scorers do, is that they, when they do the positions for each of those races, all right, they put them in the order that they finish. All right. It saves a lot of time later on if something goes wrong. All right. So each time a race finishes, take the time before you promote or demote anybody. Put it in the correct

Unknown Speaker  05:48
order, all right. So now we say right here, we've conducted our B fleet race, we've

Speaker 1  05:54
conducted our a fleet race. We've finished the seating race. If you go through the first table there for race two, four promotions. It takes three races to get it all sorted out, all right, and then, then it's just repetition after that, because the next race has to be the the number of people that go into heat is decided by that table, and it must be divisible by the number of heat she got. What? Because you can't say, Well, the first four in a fleet will go up into here, and the first three in B fleet to make the numbers up. All right. So you got to say, either whatever the table says, How many is the safer?

Speaker 2  06:38
30 boat, 18 and 12 for

Speaker 1  06:42
further boats, for the for the next fleet, 18 and 12, we got two heats, so 12 in a so we go,

Unknown Speaker  06:48
six, Yeah, we go, six, there, and we go another. 62345,

Speaker 2  07:00
for this case, it doesn't matter which order these two six are in, as long as they're in actually, and then all

Unknown Speaker  07:10
the refs go back up into B fleet. That'll be the first one.

Speaker 1  07:17
They're going to be the first to race do. Now you'll notice that there's more boats in B fleet than there is in a fleet. Why is that? We get that across? Because remember, this one here has to be divisible by the number of fleets. If there are three fleets, it'll be different again, and the sole reason for that is would be unfair to say, Well, the first first six in a fleet will go into a sail in the seating race in a fleet will go in there, but only the first five or four will go from here. So it's got to be divisible by the thing, and that's why it says it takes three races to sort it all out. All right, why there's more in this race is because these are going to be promoted. The winners of these are going to be promoted. All right, so then there will be four more in that fleet actually sailing, all right, with with 30 boats,

Unknown Speaker  08:29
we could have had six up six down. We could have used six up six down, if we wanted to. So what we said so far, the first one, first heat, we've just or the seating race. We just divided them up in equal ability.

Speaker 1  08:44
We sailed from the B fleet and the a fleet. We looked at our chart there for race two. Only remember a race two, only for 30 people, and it told us 12 and 18. So that means the first six in each heat would go up, all right, the rest will go into beefly. All right. So we now sail this race. We move these around to the order of finish for race three, you've got to go to your board. It will tell you. All right. So how many boats are in 17 and 1317, so we've already got 1-234-567-8910, 1112, 1314, so in this case, for race three only, we'd only move three of the boats up. All right, that's why we've got to follow the so all we do now is we go through the thing. We start off at the lowest heat. We say, on the lowest heat, alright, say that's the order they fit. We put them all in the order they finish. I stress do that a lot of people. It's not compulsory, but it does save a lot of lot of problems, especially later on. If a bloke gets disqualified, or you find out someone hadn't turned up. Or something like that. All right, so we've got this one here now we sail this heat. We've put them in the order that they finished, all right, and the top four goes across. Just quickly go through it again before we have a break. We get our tickets. We make sure we got the right sale numbers, no duplicate sale numbers. We put them in the order based on what on the rankings. We just go to the rankings, put it down and put them in, 12345, at the top. All right, we come along and we just make fleets of equal ability, 123, if there was three fleets, it would be 123456, all right, what that makes is as close as possible to equal fleets, but also fleets of equal ability. So we've got some top sailors in it, some bottom sailors in it. Some of the top skippers will actually tell you they treat a heating system a seating race, different to all other races. They're a lot more protective in a seating race, because if they get taken out by one of the lower boats, then they've got to fight their way up. And you can see by this system, it is a lot easier to stay in a fleet mathematically than it is to be promoted or demoted. Only four boats go up, especially in two fleets. So if there is 17 boats sailing, only four go up. So it's a lot easier to stay in that fleet than it is to to get promoted. Yeah, because remember what we said, we've got them all in equal fleets, all right, so they'll be equal sized. We go to our tables, which give us the requirements for race two only. All right, so we go to race two only. It will tell you how many boats are in each fleet. That will be divisible by the number of boat number of fleets you got. So in this one, I think it wanted to say six and 12 in the first heat, 12 and 18. So 12 and 18 divided by two, it gives you six. Six boats from each fleet go into a fleet. All right, all the remaining boats go into B fleet. We then go and we sail that seating race. All right. Don't forget, each time we do, we list the boats in their order of finish. We sail in that we go to race three. On there, race three and onward, and it will then tell you how many boats. Now, quite often it'll be the same number of boats, all right, but always check, because often it differs by one or two. And once we've gone to race three, we've set it up. It's just repetition, then just back and forward, back and forwards. And on day one, on day two, except for the last day, you can finish on whatever fleet you finish with, as per the sailing instruction or the notice of race. On the last day, you may have to finish early. It depends what your most recent sailing instruction. If it says no heat will start after 1600 that means, when you get up close to 1600 no heat will start. That means, if you say you've had five fleets, and you've only sailed two of them, the D and E fleet, the rest, they would have to be abandoned because you can't sail it. If it says no race is to start after a set time, that means, provided you get the start of the race in which is the first heat you can sail through. But if you get to a stage, and this is another thing that a lot of people don't understand, you say, right, we've finished here. Now that's the last race. Always finish on an A fleet race as the RO, it's not crucial that you, but it is advisable for you to have some idea of the limitations of the equipment and what you can can and can't do. As I said, when you're when you're selecting, or if you have any say in selecting your your volunteers, and that always put top people two places to put the top people, one in the scoring, one in the boat. If you've got good scorers and good boat, your problem's over. Most important is when you finish a race, you. All right, so we finish this race. Some of the ROS will say, right here, run up and put the first four boats up onto there. Righto. Let's get the race started. You can sort those other boats out later. I will tell you, not if, but sooner or later, it'll bite you in the arse. They'll come up and they'll say, there's two boats didn't start, or a boat got disqualified. All right, we've changed the boat. Once you've started the race, it's too late when you're doing the scoring team. I know it's difficult in some small event, but always try to have at least three people in the scoring team. All right, never try to score straight onto the computer. What do they like to have if finisher and two recorders, the finisher talks into a Dictaphone or his phone, whatever he wants to record. All right, they go through once they finish that race, what they do is they check the check their list. If all that's

Unknown Speaker  16:06
good, then they're good to go. They go up and change the board, all right. If there is a problem, the dictaphone takes precedence.
