Speaker 1  00:11
Request for redress and protest. All right, as I said before, some people have got the idea that if someone only contacts me, therefore I'm entitled to redress, not on the other problem we have with our protest system, and it's system we got we have to. There is a good percentage of the skippers. Even experienced skippers don't understand the rule really well enough to be on a protest committee. They do the best they can, whatever the outcome, to shake hands, get on with the sailing. That's a decision. You couldn't you couldn't fix it on the water. They did the best they could till you get a fair outcome, whether you agree with it or disagree with it, shake hands and get on with it and leave that Don't say another word about that incident at the regatta, protests and requests for redresses to be conducted in accordance with the racing rules. Sailing part five recommendation for protest committees are contained in nxm, and there's a copy of that in your thing that actually gives you the sequence you should follow to do a protest. The Skipper's got 10 minutes from the end of a heat to inform the RO that he intends to protest, and the IRA gives him a protest form, writes the times on the top. There is a slight adjustment in heat racing, because if you said 10 minutes, that means that the next race couldn't start for 10 minutes, and over a couple of days, that extends out to a thing. So what they've done there, they've amended to 10 minutes. Or in fleet racing, prior to the preparatory signal of the next race. If it comes in after the preparatory signal, just don't go ahead with it, because if it comes in after the preparatory signal, or the boats are racing, that means you're going to call the boats off the water, because you don't know if you've got the right boats in the heat, every effort should be made to resolve all disputes on the water. Protests take time, especially in fleet racing. If the matter cannot be resolved by the competitors, Yaro may have to nominate an arbitrator, and if they don't nominate an arbitrator, he is to do it in accordance. If you go went to the sailing instruction, there's a thing in the back of the sailing instruction with guidelines for the arbitrator, what he can and can't do. People get confused with that too. There's only one score that the arbitrator can give. It's a penalty score halfway between where you finished and a disqualification. What he can't say, even if it was on the last leg of the course, he can't say, oh, we're going to give you three points. All right. The only points he can give you is halfway between things. The arbitrator too, in fleet racing can't handle redress. If the situation calls for redress, it must be a protest committee. So you've got to call the protest committee who may request redress. A boat may call request a race committee. The race committee, if it thinks it's made a mistake or can ask for redress to be considered. It can't give you redress. The RO can't give you redress, but it can form a protest committee to consider redress. The protest committee now it can, even if you didn't ask for it as part of its decision, it can award you redress if it thinks it's necessary or it's warranted. Technical Committee, I've never seen the technical committee give redress. Who can grant redress? Only a protest committee may give redress. An arbitrator does not have the authority to give redress. The RO has no power to give redress without a hearing. Now, I've seen a lot of cases where blokes come up to the RO and ask for redress, and the RO said, Oh yeah, I think that's fair enough. I'll give you you're opening yourself up. One of the other skippers can come and then request redress, because his position was made worse because of your actions, and that is an improper action because it tells you you can't do it. When it's protest or redress, you've got to determine if an arbitrator or protest committee is required. Now, as I said, most cases, people are looking for redress. If it's involving redress, got to go straight to a protest committee, our HMS sorry, our PYC arbitration. We allow the arbitrator to give redress. We allow them to give redress provided the other boat has done a penalty and has committed admitted liability for the for. Fence, but that's just to keep things going. All right. Bill, who

Unknown Speaker  05:05
would the arbitrator be?

Unknown Speaker  05:06
Whoever you choose, whoever the RO chooses. Same as a protest committee, whoever you choose.

Speaker 1  05:15
Now, normally you have a look at the people sailing. You can pick out a couple of blokes that have got fair knowledge of the rules, he'll be arbitrator. What you got to do, but be on a protest committee or an arbitrator really throws you off your game, all right, so don't expect the same bloke to do all the protests or all the all the arbitration try and spread it out amongst the more experienced skippers in single fleet racing, you can determine whether protest will read, this has to be heard immediately. In single fleet racing, you can normally put it off. In fleet racing, it determines how many fleets you got, all right, but it has to be heard before that boat, if he gets disqualified, has to sail again. So if there's two heat, you're in big trouble. But if it happened in a fleet, you still have trouble if he's got a chance of being promoted, if he was on the last leg of the course. So you just got to think around that. It does protests and arbitration do take time, and it's the biggest complaint we have with the HMS system. But it does take time. You got to select the arbitrator or protest advise the scorers of the outcome of the hearing. It's no use having a hearing and not advising the scorers what the outcome is. What is a good practice, especially if people get redress. For the RO at regular intervals to go up to the score and say, What have you got for boat so and so in race three, all right? And if they give you a score, you say, Well, you know, you got redress in that race, and that's happened to me before that. We were talking before about the ROS ro protesting. The RO should refrain from protesting when there's boat on boat that should be left up to the skippers. The RO should only protest if he believes the defending boat has gained an unfair advantage or a significant on a significant number of competitors, there is a great infringement of rule or contact call by the RO observers has not been resolved now, there is a proviso on that, if you haven't got confirmation, It's pointless calling a protest. All right, because the it's just going to get thrown out. When looking at it, you should consider was a valid protest made at the time of the incident. If a valid protest was not made at the time of the incident, except for which rule, if the bloke didn't sail the course he sailed under a mark. You don't have to do it, but was a valid protest made at the time of the incident. When that goes to protest? All right, one of the first parts of the protest hearing is, did you determine if it was a valid protest? That includes things like, was it was a protest called at the time? Were you in the control area, etc? They determine that it's a valid protest, and they go on if they determine it's not a Valentine test, the matter is closed. Even if he's as guilty as sin, the matter is closed because there was no protest called at the time of the incident, or the bloke who was protesting wasn't in the control area at the time of the incident. Was a penalty taken as soon as possible. And this comes back to what we're talking about before the penalty is to be taken as soon as possible, not when it's convenient. If a penalty is not done properly, the penalty is not done you haven't complied with the requirements. Did the offending boat gain a significant advantage because of the breach? Was any damage done in the incident, if a boat is given redress because she was damaged, her redress shall include reasonable time, but not more than 30 minutes, to make repairs before her heat. This can be a problem in single fleet racing, because you can wind up having long delays between each heat if people are getting damaged, but he's entitled to up to 30 minutes to repair his boat for we have adjusted that for club racing. How have we adjusted that for club racing? He gives average points for races started it within that 30 minutes. But that's only if he was the right of way boat, not if he was in the it's the same as if the boat was damaged, all right, you redrew from that race. If he can't get started for the next race, that's not your problem. You've met the requirements of the rules by retiring from that race. You're allowed to sign the next race. He can request redress if he wants to have redress for submarines. He just because he was damaged and can't sell for the rest of the day. He doesn't mean you you can't sail for the rest of the day. Get redressed for the rest of the day. He's got to take himself. You've got to retire for that race, but you have met the requirements of the rule. By retiring from that race, you're all into sailing the next race. If the other bloke wants to claim redress or something, that's up to him to request it. Club racing, we've said, instead of stopping for 30 minutes each time, we'll give them average points for the first 30 minutes. Righto case book, this is one of the most misunderstood rules. An advantage gained is to be measured relative to the whole fleet. A boat may take a one or more term penalty, but better position than the boat she infringed, but in a worse position than she would have been if she hadn't breaked the rule. In this case, she has completed her penalty. So when you have all these blokes saying, You got to get back behind me, that rule does not cover the boat that was infringed. It's only covering the boat that gained the advantage. It'd be impossible. Can you imagine him saying, right, here, six boats here were disadvantaged, all right? And it's got to be the same six of votes that's ahead of him. So we'll stop racing. You move up a bit, you come back. You are ahead of him. So all right, we're all right, let's go again. It's impossible. So what it is is say he's coming in and he's going to go around the mark. There's a train coming up. He comes in, smashes into him, goes around, the mark, does a penalty, and takes off. All right, these boats get tangled up. He takes off. He's gained an unfair advantage, because they would consider that if he ducked the fleet and got him where he should have got him, he would have been eight. So the international judges will just say to you, another penalty, another penalty, another penalty, till he gets back to the around the eighth position. That doesn't mean to say it's got to be the same boat. It's just relation to your position, relation to the fleet, right? It's very misunderstood, because people ring, and I've heard numerous times people say, you know, oh, you've got to be behind me. You infringe me. You've got to be behind me. That's not the case. Go as far as allowing someone to replace their damaged boat, another boat, with everything but the DS, no. We had an incident where one of the top skippers turned up with four DFS, all with a different rig on it, the rules clearly state that only one is to be used at an event, all right, except in one hull, one keel, one rudder and one set of each of the sails with the DFS, they will allow like up at Sunshine Coast, she bought a better hole in the side of a boat about that big, but they let her change boats. They said, Yes, no problem. They're all the boats the same. She can do that, but you can't have a bloke turn up with a different ring on each boat. So if the wind changes, all he does is swap boats. Also you can't. I've had Blache come up and ask, could he swap his boat? Because his survey went that's just general main that he got that's repairable. It's only in cases of demonstrable damage. If the RO and like we said, try and pick your tides. Don't boat on boat. Don't protest the boat on boat. Leave that up to the skippers and stuff like that. Because what will happen is you'll, you'll get the thing that you got biased against some boats, or you think, always prefix your protest with RO, all right. Ro, protest for that's to cut out any of this thing that the skippers think. It's another Skipper protesting. Protest by another boat, five, six. Protest 2556, protest two, five. You will understand that taking a penalty, like I said, just because you do a turn doesn't mean you have completed your penalty. If you haven't done it properly, you have not met the requirements. All right? So there's four or five records get well clear of the boats. You must get well clear of the boats as soon after the incident as possible. So you can't go around the mark like, like, if you're in between marks, on the top mark and that, I'd much prefer to see a bloke go around the mark than try and do his turn in front of everybody and pile everybody up, right? So he goes around the mark, makes a turn in the same direction. So I've seen boats go one way and then come back the other way, not in the same direction, not counted. Each turn is to include one tack and One Drive. Now there is circumstances that that won't be a three. 60. But if he completes attacking the jive, he has completed these a penalty at or near the finish. Her hole shall be completely on the course side of the line before finishing. She can do the penalty anywhere. She can do the penalty on the far side the course line. She can do the penalty going back around the boy. She can do the penalty on the course side, but you got to be back completely on the course side before finishing. When there is a penalty not sufficient, there is times when a penalty turn is not sufficient. Can anyone give us one? Did not attempt as soon as possible, did not complete the penalty turn caused damage, because if you cause damage, the penalty turn doesn't exonerate you, because you've got a tight if the other bloke retires, gained a significant advantage, penalty turn, a penalty turn doesn't exonerate you if you've gained a significant advantage, and as we said, that is Based on your position in the fleet, not on individual boats.

Speaker 2  16:03
What happens to 10 boats hook up together, and the fleet sails passed the guy who was in the right, who's in perhaps an innocent party? What happens to him?

Speaker 1  16:18
He got to do a pedal. He does a penalty. Turn, and that that clears him. Once he's done a penalty turn, he can't be further punished, all right, unless the penalty turn is for a breach of rule two, which is a D and E, etc, there's important start with contact. Yep, acknowledge. Acknowledgement is made by the offending boat. He does his penalty, exonerates himself, and sails on the boat, on the starboard tack was thrown into irons, and just gets the shit still say, and decides that's I'm retiring now, surely that's a good example. The boat that retires won't get redressed, yes, but the other guy that doesn't limit the boat that retired won't get redressed, because why stop racing? Therefore his position in the thing was not through. He'd no fault of his own. He contributed to where he finished. The other option with that is, if you think you've been badly done by you can request redress. Whether you get it or not. It's up to the committee. Once the other bloke has done his penalty, he's he's exonerating himself. If a boat loses radio control of his boat, he shall twice hail his boat sale number out of control, and from that moment on, he's considered obstruction, and he must retire. All right, even if he yells, boat out of control, and then he gets his control back and sails on, not on. Soon as he yells out of control, he must retire. The bottom line is, if you're out of control, you've got to call it. That's a that's warning the other boats that you're out of control. Once you've called out of control, you've got to retire. Simple as that, why you've got to retire is because those other boats who even had right away have you may have taken avoiding action to help you out once you've yelled out of control, that's it. There's no going back. You've retired. If you're out of radio control, then should have said, I'm out of control. End of story. That's it. Go home. Scores that can be determined by the race officer. If a boat did not start to start sail a course, finish or comply with the rules, the u flag, the black fail. And funny enough, if he doesn't produce a certificate, all right, but that's beside the point. Don't worry about that one at the moment that retires shall be scored according to the race committee without a hearing, only a protest committee may take other scoring action which worsens a boat score. And that goes back to what you were saying, only a protest committee can take action, which there is, I keep harping on it. There is no provision within the rules to protest a race committee. No precision whatsoever. Within the rules to protest a race you can request redress, but it has to be based on an improper act or a mission. On the race committee, an improper act is defined as one that is not permitted by the rules. So if you're on the protest committee and they're claiming an improper act, if it is permitted by the rules, for him to do it, whether 90% of the fleet thinks it was a bad decision, if it's permitted by the rules, it is not an improper act. If it's not an improper act, they can't get redress. Request by skippers to reopen a hearing, a request by a skipper to reopen a hearing. Hearing must be based on an error by the committee in interpreting the rule, or new evidence was not available at the time of the hearing becoming available. Now, new evidence. They've taken that as if a witness comes forward, that's not new evidence. You just file your diligence before the it's your responsibility to get that information before the meeting, all right, so an error of the committee in interpreting it or new evidence, the RO does not determine whether whether a protest will be reopened. The protest, committee must determine where they're going to be reopened. In case where it's an error by the committee, you usually have to have at least one new committee member. All right, sometimes it's a viable to get more committee members. If it's based on new evidence, it's advisable to have the same committee as much as possible as originally heard the evidence. Otherwise, you're just going back through all the the evidence again. New evidence has to be new evidence, not repeating what you said yesterday. It's got to be new evidence. Can it be video evidence? We I tried to get into the sailing instruction that video evidence for fleet racing will be not accepted. One of our favorites conduct the sailing is a self policing sport, but the enforcement of rule two and 69 which we never do in radio sailing, because it's too complicated, is the responsibility of all competitors and race officials alike. Allowing unacceptable behavior to go unchecked is the same as condoning it, and does not protect the sailors who have chosen to compete within the rules. Promotion of fair play and sportsmanship is the responsibility of all involved in the sport, not only the officials or what's involved in the sport, all races are to be conducted in a court under the basic principle, all competitors are to be abide by the principle of sportsmanship and fair play, detailed in power 26 of the race management manual, AIA QIO supports competitive racing, but does not condone abuse, bullying or harassment of other competitors, or use of unsavory language. And the reason for unsavory language is say, well, that's a bit childish. Lot of the places we sail are in public parks. Those people have the right to use the public park without having a heap of Grumpy Old Men, but he going off their banana. The RO may reprimand an offending member, or may offer the competitor a two turn on the spot penalty to avoid the protest hearing. However, the RO is not obliged to make this offer, nor the competitor obliged to accept it, in which case it will go to protest. So you just call 720 protest behavior protest that protest is not determining who was right or wrong. Doesn't stop the other bloke from protesting the other boat. That is. All that's saying is your behavior in handling is not acceptable. A lot of incidents that happen that things really should be done with a rule 69 but rule 69 becomes so complicated, especially at a NFL, the competitor is allowed to the accused is allowed to get bloody legal advice if he wants to. It just becomes unmanageable at a ranking event. Although he has the right to legal counsel, he must answer all the questions himself. It must be given to him in writing beforehand. Who can protest under Rule 69 only a protest committee can protest under Rule 69 you may, you may bring a case to bring a complaint forward, but only a protest committee can decide whether it's going to go to a rule 69 the one we usually deal with is a rule two. The burden of proof is balance of probability for most of a rule two, it's got to be clearly established which was a higher, higher degree. What is the punishment under Rule two? What punishment can a protest committee give under Rule two, disqualification that is not excludable. That's the only the old rules that it gave him the choice of a disqualification or disqualification not excludable under the current rules, the only if he's found guilty of a rule two, the only penalty he can give is a disqualification. That's not excludable for that race. It's got to be for that race. A rule two, there's no DSQ, it's a disqualification, not excludable.

Speaker 3  24:59
Okay? DME in a HMS fleet system, he would still go, he would still come down a fleet certainly would

Speaker 1  25:09
as a consequence, because he got a It's not excludable, but that score would remain. He can't have it as a drop, and if it's disqualification, not excludable. That is the fleet plus one. So if you've got 80 boats, that's 80 plus one that you can't drop. So if you're one of the top 10 boats, they won't get that many points in the thing your race is over. No Disqualification. Is fleet plus one. If you don't finish lot plus one, and you can't drop it, and you can't drop it your bucket, you're going home. Your race is finished. You.
