Speaker 1  00:07
Did I just check your bread? So you're saying, set up your vein for the downwind, yep, and then, and then that will establish your base twist, and then kind of Cheney, everything from there, yep.

Speaker 2  00:19
Now what should you should be able to achieve there is with both, both the mask ram and the backstay. With your backstay, you're essentially trying to match on the mast, or closely match that doesn't need to be absolutely spot on, but you're trying to match the luff curve cut up the left of the mainsail, so you're trying to bend that mast so your mainsail will just sit in there nicely, in behind, in behind your mast, and then with the mast RAM at the bottom that will just hold the bottom of your mast a little bit straighter out of the boat, it will also close the lower leech of your mainsail. So between those two, they're a very fine adjustment, and you'll find you'll get big movement in your mainsail Leach. One thing to look for with that if you can't get a nice trim for your mainsail upwind without excessive movement on either of those so whether it's excessively having no backstay on, or loads of backstay on, or way too much RAM or then that's when you may need to have a look at the geometry of your kicker on the back of the mast. There's a lot talk talked about by variable variable geometry kickers. I've never found one necessary. I just use a couple of little wraps of deck patch under the bottom of the gooseneck on my a rig on the one meter, and that with the setting and the curve I cut into my sales has always been fine. Yet there are others that have the variable geometry, and they swear by them. But I, I, I find it's just one extra thing, one extra adjustment that if you, if you're not on top of it, can make things worse than what it can make it better. So that's, that's my own personal

Speaker 1  02:07
opinion on that. So, and just the last one was the the outhaul, yep, and I do have a Gibson's Gibson main so I'm like, how am I allowed to get away with

Speaker 2  02:21
I don't? Like to set them overly deep. A lot of people like to set them deep. I basically in Lighter winds the deep. There's one school of thought that you want to just get a Grunty sail and a very powerful sail in the all but lightest of winds. The deeper you make that sail, the further the air is going to bend around it. So you get to a kind of diminishing gains area once you get start to go for too much depth. So I, I would always measure, say, from the middle of the boom, the center line of the boom, to the center of the foot you I would go anywhere between sort of 12 mil, 18 mil would be the absolute maximum you would go for. I think I usually specify sort of anywhere between 12 and 15 mil a foot depth. It's one of those things, though, that once I'm then at a venue or anything else, I won't fiddle with that all day. You'll just set a nice little foot round and just leave the thing, and you'll get more positive return out of setting the leech of your sale, right, and matching that to your mast. Yeah.
