Speaker 1  00:07
I'm sure we've all stood somewhere on a start line at an event somewhere and heard someone say, Oh, I ran into I couldn't see my boat. Now, 90% of the time, I'd like to think that that's not an excuse, and it's poor positioning. If you can't stand, if you can't see your boat on a start line, a pretty general rule is move somewhere so that you can because if you can't see your boat line, how do you expect to get off the start line, well and race your boat. So even if it's you're standing at a bit, a bit too far forward of the line to get a good gage on the line. Well, you just sheet on and go with the pack, and your more chance of getting a good start if you can see what you're actually doing, rather than being tangled underneath someone. So a good rule of thumb, if you can, is never, ever try and stand directly in line with the start line, because you're going to have a line of boats and you're never going to see never going to see yourself. I always like to stand anywhere from maybe five foot forward, or you want to open that angle up a little bit so you can see your boat. And you'll get, if you do that, you'll get a depth perception of where your boat is relative to other boats with you. Now, unfortunately, life isn't always consistent with the most perfect start line on the most perfect venue, and everything's glorious. So there are times where you've got to stand to leeward of the start line, or a long, long way up to inward of the start line. A general rule is that is if everybody's cheating on go with the pack. If the guy next to you over the line, and the one under you is over the line, well, you're going to be over the line with them, and it will probably end up just being a general recall, but

Unknown Speaker  01:53
that's always stand somewhere where you can see your boat. Now, I guess moving up the beat,

Speaker 1  02:01
don't a lot of people, this is taking into account, if we're walking the course on a in a race, a lot of people walk ahead of their boat, upwind. They all, you know, the thumbs start gripping the transmitter, really tense, and everything's all exciting. You're racing. And, you know, you know, got a nice blade between your teeth and all of that kind of stuff. What you want to do is just relax your hands a little bit after you've stood ahead of your boat off the start. Just make sure you can still see your boat. But as the fleet opens up a little bit, you want to be standing no further to windward of of of your boat. Then you can then say your boat wants to either be straight out off the course, popular perpendicular to where you're standing, or even very slightly ahead of you. Because if you do that, then all of a sudden, if your boat's slightly upwind of you, ever so slightly, then as you're looking at your boat, you've also opened up your vision to the course area, and you can see what breeze is coming down to you. If you can imagine you're standing further up wind of your boat, and you're looking back downwind to it, then it's a big action to turn and look over your shoulder the whole time, and you'll find you're missing half of the shifts that are happening, and whether you should be tacking on something, or anticipating that you'll be tacking on something, then you'll get yourself boxed in, and it doesn't work for you. So stand a little bit further behind your boat and just watch what's happening up the course with the wind, you'll Okay, nice, nice breeze. Pressures happening over on the left. Okay, I'll make sure I position myself for that. Vice versa. Now we get up around at that's the way I'll sail it up to the weather mark. What I'll try and do, especially if there's instant, if there's traffic at the weather mark, you want to get to a certain place where you can see your boat and then plant your feet, and that's it. You'll race your boat around the weather mark. There might be a spreader mark that you're then off sailing to. You don't want to be moving your feet while you're sailing to that spreader mark. It's usually a very short fetch or a very short reach across to it. That rounding is one of the most important roundings, especially early in the race, is what you'll find, because you want to be nailing that nice, especially if you're in a lot of traffic, and boats are weaving and moving all over the place, because people are walking backwards and forwards behind each other, and they haven't got a good side on their boat. You want to be dead certain of getting to that weather mark, sorry, across the spreader mark. You want to know in your head whether you're going to be hooking around it and coming back for a good Jive for clear air on the inside, if that's where the wind is, or whether you're continuing on. But that needs to be a really smooth rounding, and you'll find more often than not, if you're if you're nailing that rounding, coordinating your sheet ease to your to your rudder turn rate, you will put both. Lengths on people out, out of that marker, or into a nice Jive clear air, and you'll break free, because usually there's mayhem happening across that top. Reach from there. Let your boat come to you a little bit, and then you want to be when you can just standing just very slightly ahead of your boat. So it's the opposite for upwind or, sorry, yeah, you're still standing slightly well, you're standing slightly ahead of your boat on the run again, so you can see what wind is coming down to your boat and whether you want to jive and go and hook into another shift, or basically where you want to position yourself, if you're standing behind your boat. You're not seeing what winds coming over your shoulder, taking you down to the run. Same when you get back down to the bottom gate, plant your feet round your mark, then let your boat sail back up to you, and then follow it back up the beat again. You.
